Everything he got at home and here, he got with his knowledge and his brain.
He never worked for anybody ever since I was born or before I was born.
Everything he amassed, he was extremely well-read and super knowledgeable.
Where he learned everything, I have no idea, but he was brilliant to say the least.
He knew
The history of everything he collected in depth, you know, not just the surface knowledge.
And he had big tastes.
He collected everything from antique jewelry, ancient art, ancient things, rare books, manuscripts, all kinds of paper materials.
He collected rare books?
Oh, yeah.
I have all of this stuff.
I live down the street.
Even his home takes up a whole city block.
And the yard, the grounds are littered with great architectural stone, antique statuary.
He was into gardening and got a great collection of books on gardening and paintings and bronzes and you name it and the odds are I got a collection of it.
Yeah, self-taught, self-taught and a lot of things he sort of fell into at a time, you know, years ago you could go shopping for antiques and buy great things.
Now it's a whole different
How you doing?
The things have disappeared off the market.
So my father had the vision.
Like, he knew 50 years ago what was going to be good today.
Unfortunately, he died, but he accumulated huge amounts of things because he didn't believe in stocks and bonds.
His family was from Europe and all.
In Europe, paper currency seems to change with the governments all the time.
So my father believed in objects.
He said to me, objects are always good.
Even in times of a depression, there's still plenty of rich people around.
Even though the whole country could be going lousy, there'll still be a lot of millionaires that are going to be solid no matter what.
So if you have nice things, there'll always be a market for them.
I've seen him described as a collector.
This is a collection.
Was he also a dealer, would you say?
Oh, yeah.
Was he doing this because- Master dealer.
Best salesman I've ever seen.
He had total control of the language.
He could speak beautifully.
He knew every word in the dictionary.
It's Latin derivation.
My father in his prime, he must have been as sharp as they come.
But he was honest.
He made his biggest-
What's the correct word?
He made his biggest score by being honest.
He did really well.
He went from being poor to fairly wealthy in one day by treating an older woman the right way.
How did he win one day?
He was open in 1933 in the Dulesville.
He was open on Saturday when most of the other dealers were closed.
Because there was a depression on it in those days.
Times were really tough, so it was open because every bit of money he could earn, he needed it.
So this woman walks into the little building.
She's all dressed in black with a black veil and everything.
Oh, $25.
Anyway, she says, Mr. Epstein, I see you're open.
I have this silver spoon.
I want to sell it because I need the money.
In those days, they would just weigh it and pay you the money.
So he takes a spoon in the back, and he tests it with nitric acid, and the spoon turned out to be gold.
But now he says to himself, well, I could pay the woman for the silver and score.
This is a nice little score I'd make, or I could tell her.
So he decides to tell her.
And the woman literally freaked out.
She said, I had a whole service for 12 of this, and I've been selling it to all the other dealers in the city.
You know, for silver.
So, but you're an honest young man.
You told me what it's worth it.
My father said, well, I don't have enough money on me to pay you the gold.
She said, don't worry about it.
Come out to my house.
So it turned out the woman was the widow of the president of the First National Bank.
She made my father the agent in charge of liquidating all her assets.
She wanted to move to Mexico.
Do you remember her name?
No, I don't.
I know that we had a Willie's, an old Willie's.
And the next guy we got was a Rolls Royce.
And she had stuff.
So he went, and then he made enough liquidating her assets to go into the jewelry business.
And he became like a Tiffany's.
My father was a custom jeweler.
I got things he made.
He was like a Fabergé.
My father.
You know where E.B.
Horns is?
Everybody knows E.B.
Horns.
I'm walking by E.B.
Horns one day.
always looked in their window.
And there's a bracelet my father made in the center of the window where the best stuff is.
I said, I'll be damned.
So I go in E.B.
Holland and I said, that bracelet in the window, oh, that's a very rare antique piece.
And I said, no, it isn't.
My father made it.
I said, I'll buy it.
So we brings it out.
I said, his name's going to be inside.
We parked it over and said, George Epstein.
The sign downstairs says, George Epstein, antiquarian.
He thought of himself as an antiquarian.
Oh, yeah, absolutely.
The Globe rated him.
There's an article on The Globe.
They call him
A scavenger.
My mother and I didn't like that.
But he wasn't a scavenger.
He was a real connoisseur.
Antiquarian.
Well, that's why I took a picture of that sign, because I write about antiquarians.
This is my interest.
Tell me a little bit about that.
Did he consider all of this artifactual stuff?
Did he feel that he was preserving history and culture?
Oh, absolutely.
There was a time when all the old mansions
You know, usually an old mansion would be on a big tract of land.
A lot of land would go with the old estate.
So usually the years would take down the mansion because they were going to develop the land.
So for a number of years, I was in a great old mansion every week.
And when you work in these mansions, you end up knowing the family that it came from and the source of their income.
And you got to learn a lot about a whole different
clicker society than you were used to and also you met a lot of nice people so my father through the course of dealing with the old mansions and then lots of old Plymouth, old Salem, old Boston was being torn down and by then we were pretty well established as the only nut in the business that bought this old stuff.
The only one?
No one else?
Yeah, the records would call up my father and say well George we got another mansion
And another one next week.
There used to be lots of great old homes.
You didn't realize how many millionaires there must have been.
So we were working.
And what a nice job it was.
I can't explain to going into these places and, you know, can have everything you want because you bought it.
In fact, I just bought, even though I'm sort of retired now, I couldn't resist this one.
I got a call from General Patton's family.
They have a huge estate in Native.
I sold this place, but I didn't sell him the phone number and the customer clientele and the name.
So I got a call, so I went out with Mr. Kaminsky, and what a place, and wow, I'm going to do well on this place.
She's still in the business.
You're still in the business.
I don't own this place, but I can bring anything up here I want.
He wants to buy my house and the contents.
So can I see it?
Yeah.
Believe me, my place is a whole city block, in front of a whole block, right down the street, next up to one street to the next.
And it was built in 1750.
Gorgeous.
1750?
Yeah.
It's got a barn and a farm.
If I blindfolded you and took you there, you'd think you're in Lexington and Concord.
And it's gorgeous.
And it's filled.
I interrupted you talking about the patent and the state.
I apologize.
you're talking about the patent and the state nature yeah oh well anyway i got a call a couple weeks ago to do i still uh there's old mansions i said yes we have an old house and when i went out to it uh so i spoke with the developer and they're going to take it down as well i'll i'll buy uh everything i want i'll buy like the rights to the times
But I went with Kaminsky.
He said, well, we'll buy this mantle and this and this and this.
I said, that's not how we do it.
We buy everything we want.
We'll pay you for like, let me stay here for two weeks.
I got my own man truck and all.
And that's the way you buy it.
He wanted to pick, in other words.
Yeah, so that's killing yourself.
You don't do that.
You buy everything.
And you can take what you want.
You buy time, really.
Your father taught you that.
Oh, yeah.
I learned how to.
buy and sell a lot from my father.
He could sell anything.
So did he have some theories, some philosophy?
He was real cynical.
My father was a real cynical person and everything he predicted to me came true.
Everything.
He was really sharp on matters of economics, politics,
I never met anybody that knew as much as he did.
I mean, you couldn't out-talk him on anything.
I don't care what your subject was.
He was pretty sharp.
What do you think got him started on this?
He came to Boston.
Well, he was a jeweler.
The woman with his name.
He was a jeweler originally.
And then when the Second World War ended, the jewelry business sort of ended also because all the big money sort of stopped with the war.
And things slowed down.
What about his family, his background?
My father has a brother and a sister.
He had a brother.
Give you an idea how close the family was.
When I was 13, I was bar mitzvahed.
My father's brother came to the bar mitzvah.
He was a diamond dealer.
That's why I'm 13.
Now, when I'm about 53, 40 years later,
I see Izzy on Bromfield Street in Boston.
I recognized him, even though I hadn't spoken for 40 years.
They weren't mad at each other.
There was no need to speak to each other.
And now I'm walking up Bromfield Street, and Izzy's walking down Bromfield Street.
There you go.
That was it.
He knew who you were.
Yeah, I knew who he was.
George, the spelling of George, it's almost Spanish.
Well, his name was Julius, and he didn't like it, so we changed it to George with a J. I'd like to get in touch with you and follow up and give you an idea of what we're doing.
Could you give me a phone number?
What's Julius doing?
I write books, and I'd like to send you a copy of a book that I did, and I'm writing a new book, and I do magazine work.
I just did a piece for Smithsonian magazines.
Yeah, we sold them a lot of stuff.
In fact, my father got some of the laws of the Smithsonian Chains.
We sold them a cavern, an 18th century cavern, and we delivered it to them.
So when we backed up to the warehouse to unload the load, there was a huge warehouse, and the floor, say, 100 feet by 100 feet was being worked on.
It was a huge pit, and in the pit were all these colored stones,
It was deep, too, filled with stone.
And over the stone were these planks so that we could walk, you know, have a wheelbarrow.
Anyway, in unloading the truck, I'm taking a dolly or a wheelbarrow.
I forgot that I was much younger then.
And I fell into the pit.
And then when you fall, I grabbed something.
So I grabbed this rock.
And it was purple.
And I picked it up.
And it was an amethyst about deciding a football.
So then I...
My father was a jeweler and everything.
I looked around the pit, and the pit was filled with a geologic collection.
Awesome collection.
And you literally fell into it.
Yeah.
Dinosaurs, footprints, polished fossils, petrified logs of wood.
We had a different, under the... In the Smithsonian, the pit that we walked in was filled.
Do you need me?
Yeah, real quick.
I'm sorry.
A couple of, across the area where the columns are, a couple of looted pilates.
Big.
square.
It's quite tall.
They're matching.
They're matching pieces.
I said they're 150-foot pieces.
They are big size.
Let me just take a look out the right way.
Thank you.
It was easy, you could latch it easy because the rope or the nylon bands would go, throw it and the crane lifted it, not that heavy, and the crane lifted it right off a flathead.
truck right up to the roof.
Later on, we built this base for it.
This was originally going to go to the Seacast.
But economically, they fell through.
It was going to be like an information or a ticket booth.
I know you said you got to get downstairs, but you were telling me briefly about how your father had something with changing a regulation.
Oh, yeah, I was telling you, I just misown you.
So I fell into this
pit with the rock, and the rock didn't turn out to be regular rock, it was all fabulous geologic stuff.
So I said, Dad, look at this.
So he knew immediately, he ran over and got one of the curators, and he said, listen, instead of—and they were going around crushing the rock, and the cement truck was filling it in.
So my father said,
You know, instead of paying me for the tavern, let me just load up the truck with this rock.
It was tons of truckloads.
So they said, Mr. Epstein, if you think this is thickening, let me take you.
Come on, Norman.
You can take the amethyst with you.
Come on, Norman, and I'll take you.
He took us up to an incinerator room where they were sawing up and burning old 18th century American furniture.
Then we went out to a courtyard where there was a big 80-foot tavern.
a Polynesian war canoe.
And two men were dousing it with gasoline, and he lit it.
It was unbelievable.
He was stunned.
I mean, it was unreal to see this destruction in the Smithsonian.
So when he got back to Boston, he got—somehow or other, he got a personal appointment with John F. Kennedy, who was a senator then.
So when he sat down with Kennedy for about two hours, which is unprecedented,
And he got Kennedy to introduce legislation changing the policies of the Smithsonian so they could loan things out, they could sell things, they could trade things.
Before, they couldn't do any of that.
So they had so much stuff, we can't give it away, we can't sell it, we can't loan it.
So what's left?
We've got to get rid of it.
So my father is responsible for changing that law.
That's great.
So now they can loan things, show things, buy and sell.
instead of just then we were in warehouses you know people would die leave the smithsonian collections so lots of people leaving stuff so they had warehouses filled with crates and stuff and the workmen i don't you don't have to record this okay
So he said, oh, it's kind of that box there, you know.
He said he has to get out of state.
What I caught from the paper and the reading about the family is the preservation, and this is what we've been looking for.
Well, we got the oldest door down, you know, just recently.
We took down the Blanchett house.
Now, there was a house my father really went out of his way to try and save.
It was a house built in 1657.
Wow.
And all original.
And as time went on, they would just add to the house, not take anything down.
So a guy had bought the land that was on, an Italian contractor who was into Formica.
He wanted a new modern.
So my father went to the historicals, $65.
Yeah, $65.
All right, whatever you say.
Yeah, he, no lower.
No.
I mean...
I can price things $2, but it's going to come back and hit on us.
I can't get fired, but he can.
I sell it for $20.
Now I don't care.
How do you feel seeing all this stuff?
Let me just tell you about the Blanchett house.
We tried everything.
Finally, we got the Italian contract.
I want that house down.
convinced the guy to give him a couple months, and we took it down piece by piece.
And in the house I found, my father found, an overmantle painting.
You know what an overmantle painting is?
Over the fireplace on a big board was like a mural or a painting of a Thanksgiving feast with the Indians and the pilgrims and everything, pre-1700.
I just saw that about two months ago.
and Mr. Kaminsky.
And I found the original front door, the original house, the original front door, the first Caucasian front door, you might say, original.
That's in the greenhouse.
I think he still got it.
Let's take a look at it.
Yeah.
So anyway, but the overmantle painting, my father had it home.
And I
A lot of nice people come in here.
You get to talking with them.
And I was speaking with a woman named Mrs. Dalton, who was an old Yankee money society woman, but very well educated.
And she loves the old things.
So I told her, I said, oh, at home I got a painting and I described it.
And Kaminsky saw it also.
So he asked me how much it was, and I told him.
He said, oh, it's very...
And I said, then the woman, about a week later, she asked me, because I had it all to my house, bang, she bought it on the spot.
They gave me a check immediately.
So anyway, a couple weeks goes by, and Frank says to me, I want to get that painting.
I said, it's gone.
He said, what?
It was worth $40,000.
I said, well.
When you saw it, why didn't you buy it?
See, a lot of these guys are slick.
They want to make the score.
So he outscored himself on that one.
What about your mother?
Did she always accommodate?
Did she always feel that it's... Well, my mother, not really so much into antiques, but putting up with my father for 50 or 60 years, you learn a lot on the way.
Like, a lot of people don't realize, but you get more wisdom as you get older, in spite of yourself.
Even if you're the stupidest person in the world,
You do learn as you get older, unless you're really dense.
Most people learn.
My mother, a lot of the things that we got, she was with my father when he bought a lot of them.
A lot of things to make my mother cry.
When she saw the article in the paper with my father's picture, my mother can cry immediately.
She just misses my father.
She really loved him.
My mother was
I like to find a girl like my mother for myself.
She was devoted, loved my father when he was sick, went to the hospital.
Every day, no matter what, she would spend the time with him.
It was a long ride to the hospital.
My mother is 82.
Absolutely super devoted.
People have relationships.
I've had girlfriends, but
I haven't found any women as devoted as my mother was to my father.
I want a woman who's devoted to me.
How do you feel seeing this stuff leave?
Oh, good.
You do?
Would your dad be here?
I'd rather it go to a good home than right up here
for eternity.
And I want to see the fellow do well, because then I'll be sure that he can make his final thing.
How would your father feel to stand up here and watch people get in his stuff?
Oh, he wouldn't put up with this at all.
It was by appointments only.
You had to have an appointment.
Is that right?
Well, we didn't have the crew.
In other words, there was no browsing.
If you wanted to come in here and browse, there was a fee, a $150 fee for an hour.
Then at the end of the hour, you got a merchandise credit,
But it cost money to kill the day, put on the lights, employ people.
And the fee eliminated the riffraff.
The real buyers, the people that were serious, the fee is nothing to them.
Well, it brought in the serious people.
I saw some people buy, like one, you heard of the Friday's restaurants?
Well, one day, the owner of Friday's came in here with his secretary, I guess.
And my father took him around, personally.
and showed them tons of stuff and they wrote everything down.
Then the owner of Friday says to my father, oh, Mr. F signed up.
He didn't quote me prices, but charge my man whatever you want.
I'll take everything and we'll give you a check.
So the guy didn't even care what the stuff cost.
See, those were the kind of sales that you liked.
I've had a lot of people in here that were just, and my father believed in business, sell a product
You deal with the wealthy people.
The poor people are nice, but in terms of doing business, you can write them off.
So it's nice to sell things where people don't care what it costs.
If they like it, when you're a multimillionaire, if someone costs $10,000 or $20,000, it's nothing to you.
If you like it, you'll get it.
Whereas a poor person, $20,000, oh, jeez.
What was this building?
This is a huge building.
Yeah, we built this.
Oh, you built it?
Yeah.
We had filled up the downstairs, and things were coming in so fast.
truckloads at a time that, uh, how you doing?
Things were coming in so fast that, uh, we needed more room, so.
You built this whole building, the downstairs?
No, the downstairs, but he did a lot of, all the windows.
What was that?
All the windows in the front, we put the windows in.
He put a fortune into this building, but when we were making a lot of money, it was either
invest in your property or give it to the internal revenue.
He must have had one of the kind of things people were happy to just to find it here.
Oh yeah, oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
But like I said, I have these videos he made years ago.
Yeah, years ago of things then.
So when I look at the videos and the videos would show the whole place and he'd go through the whole place and you look at the videos and you see how this
The stock years ago would have been with billions today.
Well, it was easy.
He had no competition.
He couldn't believe how that great walnut carved mantle, you're going to trash it.
I mean, give it to me.
I'll take it for nothing, even if I got to store it.
Yeah, and then when everybody you see on television, I waited on them.
If you were building a great house and you wanted a great linen window, a carved mantel, a chandelier, fancy flooring, great stairway, like, where did you get that?
At Old Mansions.
And then other people got on the bandwagon and other companies, like Old Bostonian and Restoration Resources, another place that started a business because
you could see that the market was developed already but i found i could say honestly in a big way was one of the the main founders of the business i mean there were other people in it but no one was as big i've never been in anybody's
place that had a place like this.
The average antique shop was a little nothing to me.
Did he ever do research at the Boston Athenaeum or anything like that?
Oh, yeah.
I've been at George Washington's library.
My father knew everybody.
He knew everybody at Harvard.
He knew the curators.
I'd like to send you a copy of my book, by the way.
If you tell me where to send it, send it here.
No, I'll give you an address.
At Harvard, my father knew all the curators and the
and then the higher ups.
One day in the house I found a whole group of 18th century American handwritten plays, like theatrical stuff.
So my father knew the dean at Harvard in charge of that.
And I was dressed in the funkiest work clothes you'd ever seen.
And he sends me, the dean says, oh Mr. Epstein, send your son right over.
So the dean's office was the most elegant Georgian style, and sitting in the
waiting room to see the dean.
We're always up across Harvard students and then I walk in in filthy, dirty clothes with this bag and I sit down and the secretary comes out and says, oh, you people wait, Mr. Ebsen.
It was nice stuff.
Well, just last week I found a whole folio of
letters written in 1660 yeah American but anything American of the 1600s has value no matter what it is no my father's house like there's mountains of uh old
things to go through.
I know he's told somebody, he's meeting about this, so why don't you tell me your phone number and address, and I'll get in touch with you.
My phone number is 296-2637.
That's my mother's number, but I'm always here.
Okay, and then the address is?
487 Norfolk, N-O-R-F-O-L-K.
I think when you see the book, just let me get the zip, okay?
Got a lot of great, rare books, though, I got.
All right, you'll see when I have this.
This is what I write about, by the way, and I want to send you some stuff.
Mattapan, Mass.
and the address 02123.
Oh, I saw him tell Nelson Rockefeller off.
My father has a silver figure.
I got it now.
He thought it was a Donatello or a Cellini.
Really nice.
So we're in New York at a place that deals in that called Michael Hall.
He lived in a Stanford White Mansion.
What a place.
And we're in there and Nelson Rockefeller walks in because he knew Michael Hall.
He was the upper echelon of the
of the fine arts.
So they start looking at the silver figure, and Nelson Rockefeller thought he was God.
What an arrogant guy he was.
And my father takes the figure, this is my figure, takes it back out of his hand, starts telling him off in such a sophisticated, classy way.
You know, you can call somebody
Swear words are just adjectives for someone who's too lazy to think of the correct word to call you.
So my father knew all the correct words, and he was far more knowledgeable than Paul and Rockefeller about the statue.
But I actually saw him tell him off like 20 minutes, and the guy stayed there and listened.
Didn't say, well, bleep you, I'm out of here, because he was
Even Nelson Rockefeller respected knowledge, and my father was— I don't know if he learned everything he learned, but he learned a lot.
One last question.
Did he read with the reader?
Before I leave, I want you to show me the things you're talking about.
The driveway pieces.
You mean the columns?
Yeah.
Oh, there's some iron ones downstairs.
I got a pair of fabulous, unbelievable iron columns on my yard.
Big, like maybe 10 feet tall, and about this big around.
What do they weigh the ones you're talking about?
Oh, you need a crane.